EDU-14871: FastStore: new experimental SEO flags for search engines (#1919)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/release-notes/2025-05-30-faststore-new-seo-flags.md

---
title: "FastStore: new experimental SEO flags for search engines"
slug: "2025-05-30-faststore-new-seo-flags"
type: added
excerpt: "Control search engine behavior with three new experimental flags: `noRobots`, `noindex`, and `nofollow`."
createdAt: "2025-05-30T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedAt: ""
hidden: false
---

FastStore projects can now use new experimental flags to manage how search engines interact with and categorize the store's content:

| Flag | Type | Description |
| ------ | ------- | -------------- |

> | `noRobots` | boolean | Disables the default `robots` meta tag from being inserted on all pages, removing the default crawler instructions. <ul><li>Set the flag to `true`: Prevents the inclusion of any robots-related meta tags on the page.</li><li>Set the flag to `false`: Includes crawler instructions as the FastStore default behavior, allowing search engines to understand how to index and follow the site.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `noRobots` | boolean | Disables the default `robots` meta tag on all pages, removing the default crawler instructions. <ul><li>Set to `true`: Prevents the inclusion of any robots-related meta tags on the page.</li><li>Set to `false`: Includes crawler instructions as the FastStore default behavior, allowing search engines to understand how to index and follow the site.</li></ul> |
```

> | `noindex` | boolean | Instructs web crawlers not to index the store page, which keeps the page out of search results. <ul><li>Set the flag to `true`: Indicates that the specified page should not be indexed by search engines.</li><li>Set the flag to `false`: Allows search engines to add the page to their search results.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `noindex` | boolean | Instructs web crawlers not to index the store page, which keeps the page out of search results. <ul><li>Set to `true`: Indicates the page should not be indexed by search engines.</li><li>Set to `false`: Allows search engines to include the page in their search results.</li></ul> |
```

> | `nofollow` | Boolean | Prevents search engines from following links on the page, ensuring that sensitive or irrelevant content is not included in search results. <ul><li>Set the flag to `true`: Stops the page from passing SEO value to linked pages.</li><li>Set the flag to `false`: Allows search engines to crawl and potentially pass SEO value to linked pages.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `nofollow` | Boolean | Prevents search engines from following links on the page, ensuring that sensitive or irrelevant content is not included in search results. <ul><li>Set to `true`: Stops the page from passing SEO value to linked pages.</li><li>Set to `false`: Allows search engines to crawl and potentially pass SEO value to linked pages.</li></ul> |
```

> > ⚠️ These flags are experimental and may have limitations. Before using it in the production environment, make sure to test it to ensure compatibility with your store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ These flags are experimental and may have limitations. Before using it in the production environment, test it to ensure compatibility with your store.
```

## What needs to be done?

> To use these flags, update your FastStore project and add them to the [`discovery.config.js`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/project-structure-config-options) file:

Reviewer: Não ficou claro que pra mim se esse update é justamente adicionar as flags no discovery.config ou se tem alguma etapa anterior a ser feita, tipo atualizar o CLI ou algo assim.

1. Open your store project in a code editor of your preference.
2. Open the terminal and run the following command to update the FastStore packages to the latest version:

    ```bash
    yarn upgrade -L --scope @faststore
    ```

> 3. Open the `discovery.config.js` file and under the `experimental` field, add the `noRobots` and `noindex` or `nofollow` flags. The experimental field will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the `discovery.config.js` file and, under the `experimental` field, add the `noRobots` and `noindex` or `nofollow` flags. The experimental field will look like this:
```
